# job-search-engine
A web app for finding tech jobs and gauging employer demands

## Description
The Job Search Engine is a web app that performs two main features: It presents users with the most in-demand skills and requirements from employers in their area, and it shows users the jobs in their area that they are most compatible with based on their skills and experience. Additionally, users can create accounts and view their dashboard to see at a glance how in-demand their skills are and what jobs they should apply for. Job data is scraped from the web and visualized using bar charts and choropleth maps (geographical heat maps). The app focuses specifically on jobs in the computer science field. The goal of the Job Search Engine is to make it easier for those in computer science and related fields to strengthen their resume and/or find employment in their area.

## Tech Stack
The Job Search Engine utilizes a PostgreSQL database, Django back-end, React front-end, and Node.js runtime environment. Additional libraries will be used, including the JobSpy Python library for scraping job data from the web, the Chart.js JavaScript library for displaying graphs, and the Leaflet JavaScript library for displaying choropleth maps. 

## Compatibility Calculation
Compatibility scores are calculated by taking the skills, education, and years of experience given by the user, and the skills, education, and years of experience required for a specific job. From there, the calculation is split into three parts. First, the skill score is calculated by determining how many of the jobs required skills the user knows, and the that number is divided by the number of skills the job requires. Next, the education score is calculated by giving each education level a "weight," with no education having the lowest weight at 0 and a doctorate having the highest weight at 1. The user's education weight is divided by the job's education weight. If the number is less than 1, that number is the education score. However, if the number is 1 or higher, the education score is 1. Then, the experience score is calculated in a similar way to the education score, in that the user's years of experience is divided by the years of experience required by the job. If the number is less than 1, that number is the experience score. However, if the number is 1 or higher, the experience score is 1. Finally, all three scores are put into a final formula and given weights. Skills and education are both given weights of 0.25, and years of experience is given a weight of 0.5 The numbers are multiplied by their weights, then added together. The product of this final equation is the user's compatibility score for that job.
